Document: Reinvention Under Pressure: Institutional Transformation Japan from Edo to Meiji (Pre-war): A Case Study
Lecture: Session 2
Date: January 20, 2026                                                        
Course: BAIM 3300 - AI & Automation for Tomorrow's Societies

This week is the beginning of the formal content
for our course, which is called AI
and Automation for Tomorrow Society.
So pay attention, engage, and enjoy
this very special content that we're
fortunate to have access to.
So Samuel, microphone, and take it away.
SAMUEL GOODMAN - Check, check.
Check, check.
Is it loud enough?
OK, all right.
Evening, class.
Good to see everyone.
Matt always says I'm an expert on Japan,
but in truth, I'm not an expert.
I've just spent a lot of time there.
And so I know a lot about today's Japan.
But truth be told, I don't know much
about the history of Japan.
However, I think it's important to share with you
some historical context of Japan to help kind of give you
a context as we start to approach
some of the challenges the country's facing today.
So, I'm going to start with you, Samuel.
So I have three cultural lectures
that I'm going to be giving to you over these few weeks.
And I had to learn on it, too.
But so we're learning together kind of in this part,
where I'm teaching you some of the historical context.
But I think it's important for you to know not only to help
you with the problems that we're challenged to in this class,
but we're all going to Japan.
So you should have some historical backgrounds, too.
And so with that, let's take off.
So how we're going to do this, I said I have three cultural lectures.
I highlighted three pivotal times in Japan's history
where they've reinvented themselves as a country.
One is the Meiji Restoration pre -war.
And the second is how they reinvented themselves post -war.
And then we're going to talk about today.
And the challenges that they face.
So three historical times where the country has reinvented itself.
Well, two.
And then we're going to talk about if they're going
to be able to do it a third time.
Sorry, I'm getting used to this mic.
Everyone in the back can hear me still?
Yeah? Okay. Cool.
And then, yeah, Matt says that you have a quiz.
Professor Grady said you guys are quizzed on this.
So if there are parts where I think it might be,
beyond the quiz, I may repeat myself.
So just a heads up. All right? Okay.
Okay, so first, before we dive into the Meiji Restoration,
we need to know about the time period before Meiji, which was Edo.
This was 1603 to 1868.
And during that time, Japan was very much a feudal society.
This means that they're very based on hierarchy.
So you have the emperor, which is at this time more of a figurehead.
And then you have the shogun, which is kind of the CEO of the time.
And under the shogun were the daimos.
These were, you could look at them as regional managers.
And then under the daimo, each daimo had their samurai.
And the samurai, you could look at as a middle management,
but more of the warrior class.
And then at the bottom was the labor force,
which were the farmers.
The peasants.
By the way, each of these historical lectures that I'm giving to you,
I'm trying to frame it, since we're in a business school,
with a business lens.
So this is kind of like a case study.
So you'll see words in these presentations that are business words.
I hope they're not offensive, since we are doing a historical presentation.
But that's kind of how it's set up.
You see the CEO, middle management, labor force, etc.
Okay, story time.
So in 1543, so this is a little before Edo,
Portuguese trading ship got hit by a storm.
There's always a storm, a typhoon.
And they crash -landed on a southern island in Japan.
This is the first recorded time of Europeans making contact with Japan.
So the foreign merchants, of course, had goods on
their ship, textiles.
But they also had one other key thing, one other key technology,
that Japan had never seen before.
Anybody want to guess what that was?
Yeah.
No? But close.
They were making fireworks already.
Go ahead. Peter?
Did you have your hand raised?
Sorry, no.
Anyone else want to take?
Good guess, though. Yeah?
No? No?
By the way, gunpowder was invented in the 7th century.
I just looked that up before this lecture, because I was curious, too.
Anybody else want to take one last shot?
I'll give you a hint. There are two, yeah?
One.
Oh, no. They were making sake, I think, by this time.
There are two long metal tubes.
That's a hint.
Guns. They had guns on the ship.
So the local warlord, this is the daimyo, in the
southern island that was controlling that region,
saw these things and immediately wanted to purchase them.
Sources say it was 80 pounds of silver, so that's
equivalent to roughly, I think, $100 ,000 today.
So he bought a gun, two guns for $50 ,000 each.
And then he asked his swordsmiths to reverse engineer it,
and in a year's time, they were producing their own.
Matchlock guns.
And I was like, what is a matchlock gun?
So I have this little YouTube thing here.
You can look at what a matchlock gun looks like and that technology at the time.
There's probably going to be an ad. Yeah, there's an ad. Ignore that ad.
The healthy food can taste unbelievably good.
The Mediterranean diet is the world's healthiest food.
So yeah, check this out.
Imagine being in feudal Japan.
You've never seen this thing before.
And I mean, this is a fire stick to them.
You can shoot at long distances.
An amazing technology at the time.
See, it's not perfect, right?
Imagine being on a battlefield trying to do this.
There you go.
It's a matchlock gun.
It does use gunpowder, as you'll see.
.
And if you see back at that time, the soldiers
would carry all these little gunpowder little containers on them.
.
You have your, yeah, there's the gunpowder.
.
And then you have all these little, I don't know, shoes.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
There you go, matchlock gun.
I mean, these things, though, are also highly dangerous.
Like, watch this.
He's trying to shoot it.
He opens it up.
It's not working.
Oh, don't do that.
Oof.
Right.
Crazy.
Crazy technology, but the Portuguese introduced that
to feudal society Japan.
So, in addition, I've shared with you guys before.
Oops.
My travel company called Colorado House.
The slogan of Colorado House International is
travel, trade, learn.
And I did this because I thought, well, when you're traveling,
you meet people from a foreign land, then you begin trading goods,
and eventually you begin trading ideas.
This holds true here.
So the Portuguese traded this missionary, Spanish missionary,
called Francis Xavier, heard about this land called Japan,
went out there in 1549 and began to spread the word of Christianity.
And he stayed there for two years.
But by 1600, there were what's estimated 300 ,000
Japanese Christians in Japan.
The shogun was fine with this because he was making money on the trade.
And it kind of came hand in hand.
Missionaries were traveling with the merchants.
And they were making money.
So he's okay with that.
But one thing that rubbed him wrong was the idea in
Christian faith that everyone is equal
before God.
Well, again, we're in feudalistic Japan where the shogun is the god.
And it's treason to think that there's anyone higher
except for the emperor in that time.
So this idea was kind of not the best idea for the
shogun because it's a threat to his power.
And in 1614, they cracked down on Christianity.
They expelled all the missionaries.
In addition, during that time, 1637, there was a famine.
At this time, the peasants, the way that they paid their taxes, because even back then they
paid taxes, they paid taxes in rice.
And so imagine having a famine where you can barely
feed your family and you're having
to give rice to the local daimos as tax.
So kicking out the missionaries, which were
bringing in new ideas, famine, where they're
they can't even grow their own food, but still they
have to pay off in taxes, started to
kind of raise an uprising.
And in 1637, a young charismatic leader named
Amakusa Shiro, his 18 -year -old boy, he led
an uprising where they took a castle, an abandoned
castle, with 37 ,000 insurgents.
And a masterless samurai, which are called ronin, and
they held that castle for four
months.
The shogun came and tried to attack them with their
local military, and they defeated them.
They couldn't get into the castle.
The local populace held off the military.
Well, the shogun heard about this, and he
mobilized essentially the entire military,
125 ,000 troops.
And they were able to get the castle.
So they came to that castle.
In addition, with the Dutch, by this time they were trading with the Dutch as well,
who had cannons on ships, and they attacked the castle.
By this time, the people in the castle, this was a
four -month siege, they were starving.
They were eating seaweed off the rocks to survive.
And in April 12th, they finally stormed the castle.
And they took the castle, and they were able to get the castle.
They took it down in one day, and they killed everyone.
All 37 ,000 men, women, and children were executed.
And that 18 -year -old leader, they beheaded him, put his head on a pike, and stuck it
in Nagasaki for everyone to know not to mess with the
shogun and try to do an uprising
again.
And a year after, the shogun's like, I've had enough with this.
I'm losing control.
I'm losing power.
He shut down the country.
And for a year, they were able to get the castle.
And for 200 years, Japan was in complete isolation.
They shut down the borders.
They didn't let anyone out or in, except for the Dutch, because the Dutch helped them out
in that rebellion.
And the Chinese, they were nearby.
They created a trading port in Nagasaki called Dejima, which is interesting.
If you fast forward to World War II, Nagasaki was one of the ports that was bombed.
But they made this artificial trading town.
And this is the only place where they allowed foreign
contact, and specifically with the
Chinese and Dutch.
In addition, they had this thing called Fumi -e.
Again, Fumi -e.
And this is still, there's an underground Christian
sect going around in Japan still,
these Japanese Christians.
To weed them out, they would put down Christian
figures and ask the local populace to step
on it.
As a test to their loyalty, if they're a Christian or not.
And so 200 years, the borders are closed.
There's a lot going on during this period.
There's the founding of the US since 1776.
There's the French Revolution in 1789.
And there's the Industrial Revolution.
This whole time, all this is going around on the outside world.
Nobody in Japan knew about it.
At least, nobody but the elites.
So, it's a long time.
It was complete lockdown, peace, and stagnation for
those 200 years between 1639 and 1853.
Side note, a lot of people attribute Japan's homogeneous
society that you see today, where
97 % of the population is ethnically Japanese.
To this lockdown of 200 years.
Where there was nobody coming in or nobody going out.
This is Japan's national identity.
There's a high context structure.
Fast forward to 1853, when you have four black
warships that roll into Edo Bay from the US.
This is part of the US's manifest destiny.
And essentially, Japan's national identity is a high context structure.
The local populace were shocked.
They'd never seen steam, let alone steam engines before.
Kind of knew about cannons, but not this level of cannon technology.
And then, they started realizing how far behind
they were in the technology development that's going on in the outside world.
This was led by Admiral Perry, which is known as gunboat diplomacy.
Essentially, he went up to the US.
He went up to the Shogun and said, open your ports so we can trade with you.
I will be back in a year with eight ships to get your answer.
And Shogun had no chance.
He had to open up his ports for trade.
They signed a convention called the Convention of Kanagawa.
Essentially opening the ports to the US for trade
and other Western nations soon followed.
It was completely unexpected.
Uneven agreement.
But again, the Shogun had no choice in it with the
technology that Admiral Perry brought.
And this ended the 200 plus years of Sakoku, the
closed society of Japan.
And also started the spark from Japan going from a
feudal society to a modern, or in this case, a military society.
Okay, so let's do this.
Let's do a little breakout session.
So we'll just do this at your tables.
Does anybody want to read these first two questions for me?
Can I have a volunteer raise your hand?
Anybody?
Can you please read one and two?
The core dilemma.
Was the Sakoku decree a successful risk management strategy?
That preserved sovereignty or a failure that led to technological obsolescence?
And two, the Western comparison.
Can you identify a modern US industry or company that
is currently practicing isolationism to protect its
core business model from disruptive outside tech?
Thank you.
What's your name again?
Dylan.
Dylan.
Thanks, Dylan.
So yeah, let's do this at your tables, discuss.
And if you're by yourself, join another table.
Talk about one, what do you think about the Sakoku,
the isolation for 200 years?
Was it good or bad?
And then number two, can you think of a comparison
in a business context where a company is trying to
kind of practice this isolationism to protect its core business model?
I'll give you guys about five minutes.
Go ahead and discuss.
What do you think?
First of all, I think people took rather seriously.
I think we want to start with the first question.
Do you think it's a failure based on like?
Oh, me too.
What do you think?
Especially a failure to like .
I understand some of these.
I don't believe it was about people because they preserved their traditional trust, right?
Like that's very much their right.
Yeah, I think it is.
I think if his goal was to keep Japanese.
I think it was a technological upside though.
If you're looking through an outside perspective,
let's say that's a pro of that, but what's the con, I think?
Yeah.
Yeah, I'd say they fell behind, but let's say they fell behind internally.
Like the US just showed up.
It doesn't stop anyone from coming to them.
If someone wants to come to them, they're more than welcome to.
They had ignorance as bliss.
Yeah, like if they were going to stay just in Japan and not go anywhere.
They're pretty much telling you, like hey, you can
just show up and like we might do something about
it, but you're probably going to be better than us.
Maybe they didn't know that other people would be
better than them because they were isolated, but
they definitely had no prevention.
The goals were, I think the goal was to stay away, but the outcomes were .
I don't know if that has to do with anything with Japan being racist.
I'm not a thinker about that.
What?
Japan's been known, I mean, not only Japan, but other
Asian countries have been known because of their racism.
And I don't know if you can...
Probably built a strong sense of nationalism.
They definitely...
They're all bad.
Yeah.
They're all...
It just shows that the bullshit is happening.
So, we got kicked out of a restaurant once.
And they're in like...
Taiwan shit.
They say Japan, Japanese zombie.
And we were already saved.
I mean, we got saved by a server.
Very good.
So, I'm curious, like, say, cultural differences.
That's a great experience.
I went with corporate last year.
That's why when I go back...
What did they do there?
I don't know, but I mean, still...
Because of that one moment?
No, no, no, not because of that.
But I mean, still, like, I don't know why I think,
like, for me it wasn't like, I didn't feel bad.
It was more like, I feel like, it was like cute.
I don't know why.
I don't know if...
Yeah, it should be cute, but yeah.
It was only funny at the moment.
It's just different cultures.
I don't know why you guys got together.
I don't know.
I don't know why you guys got together.
There's...
We're close, sorry.
And then a Japanese man...
Exactly.
Great.
Just a couple more minutes.
Second one.
I don't know if you...
Any ideas that we currently do that's part of isolation to protect?
Capitalizing.
You guys seen any on that?
Yeah.
Tariffs are a huge one.
Like...
Right now, we're trying to use tariffs.
Tariffs.
To like, hamster...
U .S. industry.
To stop...
Yeah, like a lot of people go to Japan, learn Japanese, abide by their customs.
Yeah.
There's also a tax on that.
Like, young people...
Yeah, actually...
I was gonna say phone.
There's so many phones.
Yeah.
That's just understandable to everyone.
The other thing is also, what about outcome culture as well?
Because that's also...
Yeah.
Like, for example, if they do farming in that area as well, because they try to use
that space as much as they can.
One more minute.
We have a large...
I took a plant.
I took a plant.
We have a plant in China.
Let's just say that.
Yeah, I wonder...
Do you think we're doing the same thing here without the culture?
Or is that a little bit different?
I'm just curious, because we have...
What?
Yeah.
I've seen, like...
Yeah, no, in Colombia there's...
There's no...
There's no...
But we're like...
I'm like...
I don't remember shipping stuff.
.
It's about, like, 10 billion.
So it's gonna, like, cool, right?
Well, for example...
For example, if...
It's like...
It's interesting, because I heard that in some countries...
It's not like...
We don't...
It's not like...
It's not like...
It's more similar to question one.
Like, recently in Colombia...
China really likes the soybeans very much, and we have grown a lot...
Very well in our communities, mainly in the, like, South States.
Okay, everyone, please stop.
I like the...
You don't have to...
Anybody want to share?
Any table want to share an observation for number one?
Any interesting comments or feedback?
Any table wants to...
Go ahead.
I said...
I said...
I said, like, it was more of a failure, but at the
same time, showing we're trying
to keep our vision here.
I think we're doing that for so long, eventually, another country's gonna come along, and trade
with you, or be lost.
So...
But we said it was kind of more of a failure, waiting for that long.
It's gonna bring some downsides to your own country.
Awesome.
Good.
Anybody else want to share?
Thank you for sharing.
Anybody else for number one?
Okay, how about...
Oh, go ahead.
We talked about...
How it could kind of be both ways, like, depending on the goals, like, if his goal
was to keep Japan, like, the same culture they had
at that present time, then he was
successful in that.
But if his goal was to, like, improve during that time, then it was more of a failure.
But it seemed like he did a good job at keeping
their culture, like, pure, I guess.
Cool.
Thank you.
Okay, and number two.
Any Western comparison?
Industry or company that you see similarities to?
Yeah.
We talked a little bit about, like, the rise of
tariffs, and about how tariffs are
trying to be implemented to kind of grow the U .S. industry.
And then, like, in a specific example of that would be, like, electric vehicles.
China has, like, really great EVs, but we impose,
like, huge tariffs on those, so they
don't get brought in and disrupt our local infrastructure.
So, like, we have a lot of
EV industry.
Yeah.
Yep.
I hear those EVs, Chinese EVs, are coming into Canada soon, which will be interesting
if they leak down into the U .S.
Great example.
Anybody else thought of some examples?
Well, this was not, like, here in the U .S., but at least in Colombia.
Not long ago, the president sort of shut down the
commerce, like, bringing stuff from the
U .S.
So it was just, he just couldn't bring anything.
Yeah.
And it was, like, closing, and it was sort of
destroying the economy until he, like,
realized, like, hey, I cannot just shut it down, and he sort of opened it and reduced
the tariffs.
And, you know, that's what I think is really interesting.
And it's, like, a lot of the trade, again.
So it's, like, a similar situation.
Cool.
Cool.
Thank you for sharing.
Yeah.
Another thing, another one I was thinking about is
when AI was first starting out, how
Google seemed to be just holding onto their search
function and not necessarily, I mean,
Google really kind of was the first ones to write
the white paper about the AI transformer
that revolutionized it.
It was the industry.
But they sat on it because they were making so much
money on their search business, kind
of that innovator's dilemma type aspect on do you
share the new technology or do you
keep it to yourself?
Okay.
And then number three, and this I just kind of threw out since we're all going to Japan.
So this is just to think about it yourself.
When we're out in Tokyo or Japan, think about how you can see this 200 years.
How can you see the future of closed doors manifest in
consumer behavior or business
etiquette today?
Just think about it yourselves on what you might see.
All right.
So that's the first presentation.
Real quick, and I'll share the slide deck, obviously.
Here's some further reading.
The first two are kind of just, you know, your
encyclopedia type reading.
Don't necessarily need to look at that unless you want to.
But I did put a fiction book called Shogun by James Clavel.
When I first went to Japan, I bought this book.
It's like a brick.
And I carried it to Japan.
I must have carried it to Japan about three times and
only got to like the second or third
chapter.
But it's a good book.
I've been told it's a really good book.
I still haven't finished it.
But there is an FX movie called Shogun by the same
name, which talks about a British
explorer who went to Japan during this time.
And he was the only, and this is based on a real guy.
He was the only Western person who was classed as a samurai.
He got to be a samurai.
So cool little story.
If you like fiction, check it out.
All right.
Did we get on time, Matt, you think?
Matt Kovach Great.
Matt Kovach All right.
Any questions on Edo before we go into Meiji?
Matt Kovach Yeah.
Matt Kovach Okay.
Good.
Again, this is just to give you some background because of what I really want to talk about
is the Meiji Restoration.
This is between 1868 and 1912, so right after Edo.
And again, we have that feudalistic hierarchy and that 200 -year lockdown.
But, you know, it's a good book.
And interestingly, there was a lot of things that came out of that.
Some technologies that Japan developed on their own in 200 years of isolation.
You have the woodblock paintings came during that time.
So the most famous one that you probably have
seen, I know you have seen before, is the
Wave of Kanagawa.
This thing, right?
Matt Kovach Right.
Matt Kovach This style of painting came about.
This artist painted it during that 200 years of isolation.
It's called woodblock or more in Japanese, it's called yukio -e.
E by the way means painting.
Nigiri sushi.
Sushi was invented during this time.
And it was looked upon as like fast food.
Sushi was fast food like your McDonald's.
So sushi came around during that time.
Manga.
The first parts of manga or visual storytelling came about during this isolation.
They made this crazy clock called the Myriad Clock,
which not only told Western time, but
also told Japanese time because Japanese time, they
also took into account the solstice and
seasons.
So not every day was an exact 24 hours.
And then they also had.
Mechanical things.
So I wanted to share this because I think it's quite interesting.
They had something called a.
They made robots, essentially a tea serving doll.
And then they made this thing called an archer doll.
Oops.
Share a little YouTube of this thing.
That was made by this.
During this time period.
So this is a.
This is a mechanical doll.
They can shoot arrows.
So this is a mechanical doll.
So check that out.
And it's interesting because during this time, obviously
other countries were making mechanical
type devices like this, but they were making mechanical devices that are more functional.
Like like the steam engine or other type mechanical devices.
This is 200 years of isolation where they're in peace.
And so their inventions seem to be more artistic.
Inclined.
And a lot of scholars, I mean, if you, it's a mechanical device, right?
But you could call it a robot.
They attribute this time period where the Japanese
are making mechanical devices without the threat of war.
To the Japanese.
And so they're more leaning towards an artistic creation.
To in addition to their, their, their cultural spirit.
Where they view robots as, as having a soul or a
spirit or a thing like in an artwork.
And it leads to many people to believe today how
Japan makes their robot robotic devices.
They view those robots as things, right?
Not necessarily as a mechanical.
Inanimate object, but as something with a spirit or something in it.
And that could be attributed back during that 200 years of isolation.
Which leads to a whole bunch of questions like it,
as we're advancing to a robotic society, do we want
to treat a robot as a part of our society?
Or do we want to treat a robot as just a mechanical
functional device that does something for us?
And how does our society adapt that technology?
Yeah.
I think that's a great question.
So, let's jump into Meiji.
Again, we talked about the black ships coming in.
So, now at this time, the populace start to view the Shogun.
And this time it's, I think it's the third Shogun that's in control.
His power is starting to be a little shaky.
His power is starting to be a little shaky.
He's letting in these black ships.
He's letting in these black ships.
He's letting in these black ships.
And so, the technology is obviously a big disparity
between what they have and what's on the outside world.
And so, a couple of domains in the southern
part of Japan make an alliance together.
And then they make an alliance with the Emperor
to kind of reclaim and take over the Shogun.
And eventually, there's a different Emperor at the time.
But eventually, the Emperor who is the highlight during the Shogun era.
During this time is Meiji.
He's young again.
But that's why it's called Meiji Restoration.
Because the Emperor Meiji comes back into power.
And so, they move on and they push the Shogun all
the way up to the northern island of Hokkaido.
And essentially take back the country.
And then centralize the entire country of Japan.
The entire archipelago.
So, all these domains.
All these prefectures that once existed.
They've unified and centralized everything.
And then, how did they do this?
What about the daimos?
What about the leaders?
The warlords in each of those regions?
Well, they just paid them off.
To pacify them.
Gave them a great retirement package in government bonds.
Which was also an invention during this time.
So, the first time in 1871, Japan is now centralized.
There's no longer warring clans between each other.
And then the samurai.
What to do with the samurai?
There was a lot of friction with the samurai
during that 200 years of isolation.
Because there was no war.
So, what are we doing with this warrior class?
And the samurai still are on the government dole.
They're getting paid by the government to live a cushy life.
But the merchants, the ones on the bottom rung, are
really the ones who are creating economy and wealth in the country.
So, there's some friction there.
Well, by the Meiji Restoration, they start to cut the samurai.
Because, you can see here, 50 % of the state's budget
was going to support the samurai class.
So, the government started to abolish samurai by doing
things like not allowing them to wear swords anymore.
And also giving stipends to the samurai so they can kind of fade away.
And then, in addition, they changed the way they were doing things.
They took the peasants and gave them guns and taught
them strategy and began to build an army.
In addition, they've centralized currency.
So, this is where the yen has started.
Where we have a centralized currency across the entire country.
No longer are the peasants paying their taxes in rice.
They're paying their taxes in currency.
Which leads me, actually, I always think this is interesting.
Of the power and the purpose of currency.
You know, is it obviously bartering goods?
But it's also to be taxed.
So, this is another thing in 1873 that's happened
where a tax system based on currency has come into play.
And then, they take that money, the government, and start to go on missions.
The most famous one is the Iokura Mission.
Where they send government officials out to the US and Europe.
And they start studying the banking, the law systems,
the factories, Japan even the constitutions.
Which is, at this time, Japan would write their own constitution.
Find their own, found their own parliament.
They hired consultants, foreign consultants, called Oya Toy Gai Kokujin.
Which are foreign experts at high wages to train the
workforce on the ideas and technology that they're using.
That are outside of Japan.
They don't keep the foreign consultants forever, right?
Those are going and consulting these days.
It would be interesting because you hire a
consultant and then, kind of, when you're done, they let the consultants go.
Because they want to maintain their Japanese spirit.
So, they have this slogan of Japanese spirit, Western technology.
That they push through during this time.
And then they begin building railroads.
They begin building telegraphs.
As I mentioned, they have now a centralized monetary policy.
Based on a banking system that they modeled off the US and Belgium.
So, they're taking all of these ideas that they see abroad.
Bringing it back home.
Making it with the Japanese view.
But really, really progressing it.
And progressing as fast as they can.
And the education system.
They modeled their education system off of Prussia.
Which is Germany and Russia at that time.
And they make all the peasants go through four year primary school.
Including girls.
Why do you think they established an education system?
Or a school?
Why would they make school?
Why is school so important in this context?
Back in that time period?
Why do you go to school?
Specifically primary school?
Or junior high?
To learn how to read.
What's that?
To learn how to read.
To learn how to read.
Why do you want to learn how to read?
To communicate.
To communicate.
Why do you want to learn how to communicate?
To trade more.
Yeah.
To become factory workers.
To become workers.
Right?
There's a scene in the US too.
Back in the time when we put our education system in.
To train future factory workers.
Or to train future workforce.
So this is an economic development as well as an education development.
And thus is found the government starts publicly funded companies.
So they do ship building.
They do textiles.
And then they privatize it.
They give it to trusted families.
And this is the founding of Zybotts.
Which is essentially a conglomerate.
So your Mitsubishis were born during this time.
Mitsuis, which is a huge trading firm, was born during this time.
Nintendo also, just a fun fact.
1889 was born during this time.
I forgot to bring them.
I'll bring them next week.
But Nintendo started as a playing card company.
They had these little cards.
And then, you know, down the road they became a technology company.
So they also, the government started scaling industry at this time.
During the Meiji Restoration.
But, you know, there's still resistance.
They were going with this slogan of Japanese spirit, Western technology.
But a lot of people are starting to think this is
Western spirit and Western technology.
I don't like this.
So some of the people, specifically a leader who helped centralize.
The country.
Fought back.
He didn't like the way the samurai were being treated.
He didn't like what he felt was the loss of Japan's identity.
And he led a rebellion in 1877 called the Satsuma Rebellion.
Which was quickly squashed by the army.
Who had superior technology.
Guns against swords.
It was no match.
And this kind of put the end to the samurai.
And it definitively ended to the feudal era.
Another thing, and this kind of leads to my next cultural lesson, which I'll give next week.
As Japan was trotting about the world, they also learned about empire building.
And they thought, well, you know, if that's what
developed nations do, that's what we're going to do.
And so in 1894 they fought the Chinese.
And took over Korea and Manchuria, which is part of China.
And in 1905 they fought the Russians.
Completely lopsided victory on both occasions.
These are against armies that are three and four times the size as Japan.
And they thrashed them.
The whole world was shocked about this power.
That this little feudal society had suddenly accomplished.
And really, it was a great victory.
And it really put Japan on a world stage.
Which eventually led them to join, as the only Asian country, the League of Nations.
This is now into post -war.
And getting a seat at the global table.
To become essentially another power.
A global power.
Alright.
So.
In summary, in just 40 years,
Japan reinvented its political, economic, social,
and geopolitical structures.
To become a country that you probably wouldn't even
recognize in 1868 to what it was in 1912.
This will lead to their continued military buildup.
Up through World War I to World War II.
I'm skipping the wars.
Just because it's a whole other ball of yarn.
We'll talk about post -war in my next lecture.
But it's a very interesting time period as well.
And if you're interested, I have some resources that you can look at during that time.
Yes?
How did they fund this transformation?
How did they fund it?
That's a good question.
I think it really came down to this part.
Where they put in a currency system.
And they had not only the farmers, but also the merchants.
Having to pay tax into the central government.
Because before that, I mean imagine managing a tax system between all these little domains.
With rice stipends.
And you know, each feudal lord trying to get rice
subsidies from one which might be different from another region.
Really centralizing it.
And then putting a central currency with taxes allowed
them to start going out and learning from abroad.
Any other questions?
As well as founding industry too.
Alright.
Let's jump to one last breakout session if we have time.
Yeah, I guess we have a little time.
Can anybody read these two questions?
By the way, if you're wondering.
Okay, great.
Yeah.
I used to teach in Japan.
As I may have told you before.
So my teaching style is very much that way.
If you graduate university and you go off to teach English.
You'll be teaching the same style.
So I apologize if it's not like university style.
This is kind of the way I teach.
So yeah.
Please read the first two.
The court of 11.
The major government.
Strip the samurai of their stipends and fund to fund industrialization.
Is it ethically justifiable to disenfranchise a specific
social class to save the broader economy?
The western comparison.
Compare the dismantling of the samurai class to the
current displacement of blue collar workers by AI automation in the US.
What are the similarities in social friction?
Great.
So same with your tables.
Talk about what do you think about them just stripping the samurai class?
And kicking them out because it didn't align
with the future of the national agenda.
And then a western comparison.
How would that relate to today where blue collar
workers may or may not be replacing with AI?
Or white collar workers to that point?
Is that a good thing?
Is that a bad thing?
Is it a needed thing?
Should we do it?
Should we not?
Etc.
All right.
I'll give you guys five minutes.
Please chat with your groups.
I think we're all talking about taking influence from the west.
If you truly want to westernize your country, you
have to get rid of strict social class.
classes like that allow people to make their own living.
It's all of a sudden, though.
So it's, like, really fast.
I don't think they're even comparable at all with, like, AI and automation.
I don't think that has anything to do with it.
That's just not the same thing as the government.
Government saying, hey, you don't have a job anymore, so do, hey, there's a technology.
They were just going to random people and, like,
stripping them of the stuff that they
hadn't acquired in order to, like, modernize.
It was, like, it seemed to work.
Compare the two.
Automation drives.
Obviously, there's people who are super interested in it from...
I don't think it's at the right...
I'm just curious, like, how he framed the second question.
It's interesting that he, like, developed it as a...
No, it's not a parallel at all.
But they just price...
And it's compensating them in some form.
They said they gave them, like, government bonds.
I'm not entirely sure what the worth of it is.
I mean, I'm not saying there's bonds in there.
But it's better than nothing.
Yeah.
It's not like you're...
It's not that there's going to be as many issues.
But, I mean...
I'm probably interested.
You guys have no disagreement.
I'm just, like, curious about it.
It's more so they're going to all be...
Like, they have to remove their power to move forward.
Yeah.
So...
Well, the thing is, though, they're warriors, and now they're stepping to a different...
They're nonsense.
Yeah.
It's the samurai in those jobs.
Yeah.
It's the samurai.
Yeah.
It's not...
Obviously not...
And for a second one, yeah, the same.
AI and automation is not, like, a threat for blue -collar workers, because it's very manual.
Yeah.
It's very much it for a second one.
Yeah.
Well, I think the whole point is they want to get rid of their status.
They want to westernize.
And getting rid of their status allows them...
It more so benefits, like, the labor...
Yeah.
Now it's an even playing field.
And they're all sort of...
They all have to adjust together around the samurai having to...
Having an advantage.
Yeah.
Like, the whole, like, whole...
Like, truck drivers.
I was...
As for the...
You know, most gods are very...
In this, the look ahead is...
I mean, that's nice.
...next to ancient shrines.
And I never...
I never...
Yeah.
The only thing I can think is, like, the poor workers are going to go...
The entire, like, poor...
Is there a question?
Yeah.
What do you guys feel?
I don't want to, like...
I don't want them to be like, oh, we're going to be like...
I don't want them to think that I can't drive on the snow, you know?
So I'd rather...
Just a couple more minutes.
Oh, yeah.
Sorry.
Yeah.
Sort of, like, almost 500...
It's all right.
It is a little bit different.
500...
So it was, like, 240...
Basically, this is just...
Another 300 to change the...
Last...
The different...
Areas.
Did you...
No.
It was the snow.
Yeah.
And it was, like, all the way to Denver.
That was not your fault at all.
I used to, like, commit from Denver.
I was like, here.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to do that.
But I was like, I can't do this.
And then I moved today to a field.
That's a little bit more tricky.
The similarities I see with that of the social...
I'm not driving any...
It's...
No one wants to lose their job.
That's, like...
Obviously.
I'm curious, why do you guys...
How I see how they're comparable is, like, for the time...
Yeah.
Sorry about that.
Could be similar, like AI should be our, like, advancement to the future.
That's what Japan needs with the warriors, like...
I also think the bay is very different.
The big difference is the government doing it.
Big corporations.
It truly is westernized.
It's everything we have proved that we believe in.
That's what we support.
It's a consequence of our own doings.
I think it's more comparable to a swordsman losing their job.
You know what I mean?
It's not like AI might be taking someone's job.
It's not taking someone's job.
It's not like you can never get a job.
All right.
Let's come back here.
Does any table want to share an interesting
conversation on point one with the class?
Yes.
Yes.
For the first one, is it all right to strip the
samurai of their stipends to fund industrialization?
We said yes, it's for the betterment of the entire
society, but at the same time, they did it in a
very bad, they did it in a very unprofessional way.
They should have created an avenue for them to hang up their swords.
But also incorporate themselves into this new Japan.
Which is what it sounds like.
It's like both sides weren't going to budge, and
they just kind of vanished.
Yeah.
I think that's a good point on execution.
I think there, I read somewhere where they tried
to get the samurai to be a part of their raid into
Korea, but the samurai didn't want anything to do with it.
And they also came, this is the time period where
they formally wrote down the Bushido code, which is
similar to what they learned when England,
had the chivalry code, to try to show that they're
trying to maintain the Japanese spirit or the
samurai spirit by writing down like a manual to that.
But yeah, it seems like they just didn't do it.
They pour execution on it.
Cool.
Anybody else want to share on number one?
Yes.
You were talking about it as like a sink or float
option of if they didn't disenfranchise.
The samurai then would the entire country have been
like taken over like Imperial since it was
during imperialism been taken over by another
country and like a lot more people would have suffered and died.
It's kind of like, is that the trade off that would have happened?
Or could they have gone about it a different way
that integrated them into the army or something like that?
I think that it's interesting to see like
what would have happened if like they had just kept going on the way.
I think it would have been a lot worse probably.
Excellent point.
Yeah.
And again, in my research for this project.
I'm not sure if you've heard the presentation.
Some people point out if anybody knows about the
Opium Wars, which happened before this when Britain went into China.
They saw how essentially from that whole experience
and the treaties that came out of it is so uneven
with Britain having so much leverage on China from the Opium Wars.
And because Britain had the superior technology to push China.
around to do things that they don't didn't want to agree to Japan kind of
looked in and said we don't want to fall down
that same pathway we want to go out
and try to learn this Western technology as much
as possible excellent all right
number two anybody want to share anything on number two with AI today
how do you guys feel about it and not just blue collar it could be white
collar too yes like the peak of its power it was 10 % or less of the
population where it's also like one sector of their you know economy or
industry of Japan whereas an automation it's taking
over numerous jobs and
probably proportionately a lot more than what the army
was probably doing in the past and so I think that's a great question and I think
that's a great question and I think that's a great question and I think
taking over with the samurai population and also
since it was like a closed like
cast it was like again very specific whereas AI and automation like there's
no like realm of it like not being able to like
take over something in a sense
excellent point yeah I get anybody else yes we
couldn't really like compare the
two of them because one thing I think is that like the the the the the the the
Weldon andIch تو 보다
with what happened in Japan than it was just like the government saying to the
samurai you just need to leave we don't want you anymore
sure yeah maybe it is a stretch to make this
comparison one thing I was just
encouraged to me is also part of the the losing of the
Amarai Japan is concerned about losing their identity.
So if you did want to make a comparison where AI is coming in,
are we going to lose our identity somewhat with this automation?
You know, like I was just listening to a podcast
today about movies, right,
and AI rewriting scripts.
Is it all going to kind of just end up being the same thing?
Can we no longer have, like, the uniqueness that a human writer can create?
Yes.
Yeah, we kind of agree that you can't really compare the two,
just in the sense that, like, I think maybe a better comparison would be, like,
how did industrialization change the workforce in Japan at the time?
Because, like, AI and automation is kind of a very general category, I think,
compared to, like, getting rid of the samurai specifically,
which is, like, a government -mandated thing.
Yep.
Cool.
Great.
Great points, guys.
Great discussion.
Just number three, something to think about.
Again, look ahead when you all go to Japan.
As we walk through Tokyo or Japan, or Nagoya, I mean,
you're going to see shrines right next to skyscrapers.
So think about how Japan tries to keep their
Japanese spirit using Western technology.
All right.
Oh, wait.
Further reading real quick before I switch back to Matt.
Quick summary.
Okay.
So this.
We reviewed the first reinvention, 1868, 1912, Meiji Restoration.
External threats, such as the Black Ship, transformed Japan from a feudal society
to an industrial global power.
Next week, we'll talk about the post -war miracle.
Thank you.
And further reading.
So, again, the making of modern Japan, again, this is pretty academic.
So, the second one, which I haven't read, but it was
recommended to me, the autobiography
of Yukichi Fukuzawa.
If, I think they're changing the currency, but
still, on the old 10 ,000 yen notes, it's
a picture of this guy, Yukichi.
Sometimes people say one Yukichi, two Yukichi to buy stuff.
He lived during this time.
And so it's his autobiography of what it was like from a firsthand perspective.
And then, I'm.
I listen to podcasts so much.
So, if you guys like podcasts, there's a YouTube by this woman, Sarah Payne.
She teaches at the Naval Academy on U .S. military strategy.
And she talks about this time period from a military
strategy perspective that I found
quite interesting.
So, check that out if you like podcasts.
All right.
So, with that, thank you guys for your attention.
Thank you for your time.
That was awesome.
Sam, great job.
Thank you.
Thank you.
