Document: Reinvention After Collapse: Economic Reconstruction Japan from Shōwa to Heisei (Post-war): A Case Study
Lecture: Session 3
Date: January 27, 2026                                                        
Course: BAIM 3300 - AI & Automation for Tomorrow's Societies

Hope you're all doing great.
We are, again, recording.
So, for better or for worse, please keep that in mind.
If you have a question that you'd like to ask us
that is, that shouldn't be on the recording,
Will you please let us know so that we can turn our mic off and kind of step away from?
So this room is so high tech that not only are we
wearing microphones and there are multiple cameras and projectors,
but there are actually microphones in the ceiling as well as speakers.
So, again, if you have a question that you'd like to
discuss that's, you know, just not appropriate for the recording,
feel free to just ask us to we can step outside or
we can do so in a way that just takes us a second to kind of turn that off.
But please be cognizant of that. The upshot is if you miss a lecture, it'll be online.
It's in the course recordings. It's called a media site.
It's a new technology that I think CU is testing and we do get the transcripts.
And part of what Sam is going to dive into between
tonight and over the next few weeks is he's training Makoto Kun,
the AI assistant on those transcripts.
So you'll be able to ask questions about the course
in the direction of this AITA that I've been working to develop over the last few years.
And then I ended up on the big screen because of
I got a big award for that work.
So don't look out there. Just stay looking in here. I don't don't distract you.
So a couple of other housekeeping items just to get us started.
First, the quizzes. So we are, as you know,
as the.
Pioneering or in our inaugural.
Class taking this this first thirty three hundred
course, you are seeing us develop content in real time.
So the quiz is prepared. It's not yet available.
I'll publish it tomorrow. You'll have an unlimited amount of time to take it.
So what does that mean? The only thing that you
need to know is that it's due before class next week.
OK, so.
The first two sessions wanted to. I'll tell you
there's nothing on the quiz from session one. It was
just us getting to know each other. You didn't miss anything if you weren't here.
Session to Sam did an incredible job covering
Japanese history today. He'll continue and finish
that lecture. So session two last week in session
three today will be on the quiz.
And as was, I think, beautifully delivered. There are dates.
Key concepts, other things about just putting.
This history in a.
In a framework for us to use history as a.
A predicate for where we're headed in the Japanese culture and the Asian economy.
The Japan carry trade. If we have any finance majors,
please pay attention to that. It is starting to unravel.
The United States is buying yen to prop it up.
Which will round about prop up the USD.
These are very, very.
Trying times if you're in the world of.
I.
Global macro. So please pay attention to that.
So again, housekeeping wise.
First quiz will be due next week.
You can start and take that quiz.
Anytime you want.
I don't time it.
It's closed note.
Close book.
Close collaboration.
And you will know right away if you know the topics or you don't.
If you mess one up, no big deal.
You'll have another chance on the final.
Because the final is just a super quiz.
Okay.
So just like I run.
All my courses.
Learn the vocab.
You know, practice your dates.
Get a sense of kind of who did what when.
So that when you're in an interview, you can have a coherent conversation.
That will convince the executive and the person that you're going to be working for.
That you know what you're talking about.
Okay.
And again, give yourself a little grace.
This course is not designed to be a curved course
where you're in the 20s to 40s through the semester.
Like I was in engineering.
And then you get.
40 % added back at the end of the semester.
This will be where we'll watch the grades.
We'll tweak the final result.
You'll be happy with your grade in this class.
And of course, it's not the reason to take this class.
It's to just get an easy D.
Okay.
So that's the plan.
Course logistics wise.
I did also want to mention to you now.
Since I'm kind of covering all these things.
As I had on the screen before.
I really would like you as I had sent out.
If it didn't come through, that's on me.
But I sent either an email or an announcement.
That I would love to have you share an article relevant to this course.
That you will post in the discussion thread and then summarize.
And I did so three times to give you examples.
And I wanted to give a quick shout out to the
only person who has done this so far.
And that is Matt.
So well done, Matt.
Where you at?
There you are.
Well done.
Thank you very much.
Please do that.
I read your content.
I was somewhat familiar with the work that you had found already.
And so it was nice for me to take to read your
perspective on Deloitte's thought leadership in AI and in predictions.
Now, are we offloading our work to you?
Not really.
We're just trying to get you to have some buy in in this content.
Recognizing that much of this content will be dated.
And that a year from now.
When your predecessors or your successors take this course.
They'll look at these articles and kind of chuckle.
Because they will all know that certain things were true and false.
So again, try to find things that you think are highly relevant.
Whether they're timeless in nature.
Or whether they're very, very specific to what's happening now.
And so that's, those are kind of my major announcements.
What I also wanted to do is just give you a quick
preview of where we're headed.
And that is that we're going to be.
So it's really important to me that we always start a course strategically.
Which is to say, you know, history.
The big ideas.
The macro factors in an environment like Japan and Asia.
But I also want to get technical.
Because this is an AI and automation course.
So beginning in the second portion of today's lecture.
And most of next week.
We will be very hands on and technical.
Now that might be Figma.
Which is a design tool.
And then that will also be some AI prompting.
And some techniques that I just wanted to share with you.
Are really, really cutting edge.
So coming out of MIT.
If you're interested in the most sophisticated aspects of AI.
Look into recursive language models.
And what's called recursive metacognition.
I mentioned this in one of my other courses today.
Just as a teaser.
So that's just a preview of where we're headed.
With learning how to prompt.
In a way that leverages AI to be your advocate.
Your co -pilot.
Instead of just doing brute force work.
So look forward to more on that next week.
And as we head into February.
Okay?
Any questions about course logistics?
Housekeeping items?
Great.
Yes, please.
Do you know when the final will be?
Like the date?
I usually get those dates in the second month of the semester.
So let me publish that for you once I get it.
I don't.
Our trip obviously won't be impacted by it either way.
So it will just be in the regularly scheduled time slot.
And then what I typically do is offer one alternative time.
Before the normal final.
To help you if you have certain conflicts.
Or get double booked or something like that.
Okay?
Again, super quiz.
I don't know how long it takes to do it.
It will take you.
I don't know.
I can't say because I don't have the data yet.
But quizzes.
My quizzes usually take 15 minutes.
So maybe the final takes you an hour.
I don't try to develop tests where time is a factor.
For better or for worse.
Okay?
So one other thing.
Again, I'm going to turn it over to Sam.
I'm really looking forward to his content.
He's graciously linked the decks in this course matrix.
So please capitalize on those.
Subject to change.
Because we are continuing to refine our plans as
people are available in Japan and here in the U .S.
And then the last thing to say is that we have a special guest.
Which I will introduce and we'll do a little Q &A towards the end of class tonight.
So if you can, please stick around until 615, give or take.
And we'll have a nice discussion from a Leeds alum, Alex Mitchell.
Okay?
So Sam.
I'll let you take it away.
And we will go from there.
All right.
Check, check.
Cool.
All right.
Thank you, Matt.
Good evening, class.
I hope everyone is doing well today.
Any Bronco fans here?
I'm kind of a fine fan.
Yeah.
Bummer.
Bummer of a game last weekend.
I always, I'm telling everyone if Bo Nix was still playing, we would have won the Super Bowl.
So this year is an asterisk for Denver.
All right.
Let's get into it.
So today, actually, let me go here.
We are going, last time I spoke, we talked about the Meiji Restoration.
And then we also spoke about before the Meiji Restoration.
We spoke about the Edo Period.
So now today we're going to talk about the post -war
miracle, which is 1945 to 1989.
But we're also going to go past that.
We're going to talk about the lost decades that happened after that.
I'm not going to touch on the actual World War II.
There's a big gap, right, between 1912 and 1945.
That could be a whole other class in its own.
But at the end of this lecture, I have some great resources.
If you're interested in that, you can dive in, too.
That being said, this is, I don't know if many
people realize this, but in 1945, Japan occupied all of the peak.
So that's Manchuria, that's South Korea, so into China
there, and pretty much all of Southeast Asia.
So since we talked about how in the Meiji
Restoration, they, you know, they were able to get to the top of the world,
they, after their 200 -year period of isolation, they
kind of changed focus and started building a military.
And then they, the whole country came together under
one emperor, and they continued on this technology
and empire building, essentially.
From, again, 1968, 19...
No, no, no.
From mid -19...
Early 1900s all the way to 1945, where they occupied this much territory.
Interesting viewpoints on their perspective on why they did this.
And definitely there were atrocities that happened during this time.
But again, that's another discussion that we can leave for another time.
So.
I'm going to talk about what happened after the war.
Basically 1945 onwards.
And, you know, it's pretty incredible.
They went through a devastation again, and then
they rebuilt their country to be an economic powerhouse.
You know, in 1988, 32 of the top 50 corporations
were Japanese.
And then they went through a devastation again in 1990.
I think it's interesting to think about, you know, how
many companies, interestingly today,
it's just one.
Anybody have any thoughts on why this happened?
Why did they go from 32 to one today?
Yes?
Was it the tech companies taking over?
The tech, like in the U .S.?
In the U .S.
Mm -hmm.
They got a bunch of these folks.
I think that's definitely a part of it.
Yeah.
Didn't their loan system and housing market collapse?
And then that was a huge economic shift.
I think you get both right.
And we're going to talk about both of those topics today.
Yes, great.
So the Japan paradox.
So we're going to talk about the economic miracle post -war,
and then the lost decades that happened after that.
So let's move right after the war, 1946.
So Japan went all in on military and empire building.
And then after the bomb, after the war,
they were 53 % of their pre -war size.
In Tokyo alone, they went from 4 .5 million people to 2 .5 million.
And so literally they're in rubble.
They're eating tree bark.
They're just trying to survive.
And at this time, they decide to pivot again
from building a strong army to building strong companies.
So how did they do that?
Well, first they plan from the top at the government level
with an organization called MITI.
MITI is the Ministry of International Trade and Industry.
And so this organization,
it's a small organization.
It's a large organization.
And so this organization said, OK,
we're going to focus on a few key sectors
and grow those globally.
We're going to focus on steel, shipbuilding, electronics,
and autos, to name a few.
All right.
And then in addition, they're going
to coach the companies on how to get loans
to power their companies into these industries.
And so in addition to that, they're
also going to, again, going back to what
we saw after the isolation and the Meiji Restoration,
bringing in experts, foreign experts.
But in this case, they're bringing in technology.
They're licensing technology.
But they're also at the same time preventing foreign companies
from setting up shops.
So they're just taking the technology
and learning about it.
But they're blocking foreign competition in country.
And they're taking those ideas and technology
and making it, in their way, a Japanese technology
and then exporting that as a finished project or product.
So how are they going to fuel this?
And this is pretty incredible.
They decided, they came up with this FILP financing system,
which is Fiscal Investment and Loan Program.
And basically, all the citizens all across Japan
pooled their money together into one savings account,
into the Pulse.
And then they were able to get a local savings account.
And from that, the government took the money
and loaned to companies.
I mean, imagine trying to do this in the US.
And this was the fuel to power the industries that
came up into the 80s.
So your Sonys, your Toyotas all came out
of this strategic initiative.
And in addition, we have visionaries
that were born during this time.
So we have Akil Morita, who actually was born in Nagoya.
So when we go to Nagoya, this guy was born in that region.
And he came from a family of famous sake producers.
But he was in love with electronics.
And after the war, he was, I think,
I don't know his rank in the war.
But during the war, he met his co -founder.
And afterwards, they had an opportunity,
to become professors and teach.
But they decided to form a company that is Sony
and grow that to what it was at its height in the late 80s.
And he's a visionary in many ways.
But he also had courage.
There was a time before Sony was Sony where he was approached
by Bolova, which is a famous giant US watchmaker.
And they wanted to buy 100 ,000 units of Sony's watch.
And they wanted to buy Bolova electronics.
But one condition is that they wanted Sony
to take off their brand label and to put Bolova on it instead.
This is, at the time, 100 ,000 units.
This is more than the entire market cap of the company,
of Sony.
And many people advised, you should definitely do this.
This is a giant order.
This is the biggest order we've ever had.
But he said no thank you to that.
Because he said, supposedly, in 50 years,
the name Sony will be as famous as yours.
So that kind of courage, that kind of visionary,
people like Merida, people like Honda,
were born during this time.
And so, of course, not long after, the Walkman came about.
50 million units sold in 1983.
It became a Walkman part of the Oxford Dictionary.
And it just, it was a huge hit.
Not only the craftsmanship and the technology,
but just the idea of putting music on your head,
which to you guys probably is like second nature.
But back then, maybe Professor Brady remembers this,
I do too, these Walkmans were amazing.
In my generation, we had the CD player Walkman.
It wasn't the cassette style.
But this was the CD player Walkman.
This was the first commercial of Sony.
The Sony Walkman is a tiny stereo cassette player
with truly incredible sound.
Hold on the Walkman and see the world in a whole new light.
The Walkman from Sony, the one and only.
So giant hit for Sony.
And they continue with their TVs, their radios.
It just, a huge, Sony really demonstrated quality
and craftsmanship in their electronics.
Okay, so we have the corporations on board in key industries.
We have the citizenry getting loan, putting their money
in a loan system to power the corporations.
And now we have the employees, the workers.
And this is where the salaryman concept came in.
This is an idea where you're an employee to a company,
but you're more than an employee.
You're essentially total loyalty into the company,
not worried about getting paid for overtime,
working ridiculous hours, but on the contract that you will have
lifetime employment.
So you hire, you, you know, you're going to have to pay for overtime.
Right out of college, you join a company,
and you're in that company for life.
And that's kind of the deal.
You give everything you can to the company,
and in kind, they will not get rid of you.
And that was the salaryman.
These guys, and you'll see them when you go to Japan still.
They're still there.
Maybe in a different light as to, as what, back during this time.
But press suits, black jacket, dress really to the nines.
They're still there.
Going to work early in the morning on packed trains.
And then after work, it's social time,
which actually in Japan is where most of the business gets done,
where you go out drinking, partying, everything.
Come back early in the morning to your house.
Get up 5 a .m. next morning and do it all over again.
Okay?
So what happened from all this?
Well, on average, there are, you know,
the average GDP grew 10%.
So from 1955, it was $24 billion.
And in the 1980s, they had grown to $1 trillion.
So just in a short time, again, from the rubble of
the World War II loss,
they reinvented themselves.
Instead of the world's strongest army, they became
the world's strongest companies.
And I remember during that time,
a lot of people were putting out books and movies
about how Japan was going to be the number one economy in the world.
At the end of it, in the late 80s, they were the number two next to the U .S.
But the bubble started going, all right?
And this might sound familiar every time I look at this slide.
People, because the economy started growing great at 10 % on an annual basis,
and the economy was growing at a very high rate,
people were buying land.
And of course, the value of that land raised.
They used that as collateral to borrow cash
to buy stocks or buy more land.
And this kind of started circling the bubble so much
so that at one time,
the Imperial Palace grounds, which is roughly about 300
square yards,
so that's like, if you guys drive on 36 back to Denver,
I don't know if you ever see that, the CU South Campus,
I think it's just a seed building right now,
but that land, there might be some random animals in there,
that's roughly the size of the Imperial Palace.
It's not too big.
That piece of property was valued at more than the entire state of California.
A parking lot in Tokyo was valued more than Central Park in Manhattan.
So at this time, the government started to get nervous,
started to pump the brakes, and realized that they were in a bubble.
Also, people, like office workers could go to the bank
and easily get a 100 million yen loan.
100 million yen in today's money is like half a
million dollars U .S.,
but in that time, it was like $2 million.
You could walk into a bank.
As a middle, mid -income office worker,
and get a $2 million loan.
So, definitely in the bubble, the government had to do something,
and they essentially hit the brakes to a screeching halt.
They raised interest rates, I think, five times in over a year,
a little less than a year,
from 3 .25 % to 6%.
So this makes it harder to borrow money.
In addition, they capped loans,
so you can no longer get that $2 million loan.
And then there was also some tax things that prevented lending money
as much as they were.
So, what happened?
Well, in retrospect, you know, hindsight being 20 -20,
they hit the brakes too hard,
and the entire economy,
the entire economy just collapsed.
$10 trillion in wealth were wiped out in a little over a year.
And more to it, that kind of social contract
where you have lifetime employment,
that was shattered too.
Sony cut 17 ,000 jobs at the end of the 1990s.
Bankruptcies went up 68%.
So 10 ,000 companies went belly up.
And again, that lifetime employment contract
is what's broken.
And in addition, the banks themselves,
not wanting to take a loss on paper,
continued to loan to some of these companies,
as they still do today, actually.
And this is what's known as a zombie company.
So it's not growing, it's not innovating,
but it's not dying either,
just because the banks don't want to take a loss on those loans.
So this is leading, this leads into the lost decade,
roughly 1991 to 2001,
although some might claim it's still going on.
Growth was at 1 .14%.
And then for the human capital,
there would be a scene where,
would you go out and get a lot of work done for the labor market ?ライal
capital coming go to these companies to actually
have an apartment to keep workers on a regular basis. And so
it getsLooks like it's started that way. In that
go straight to the cene encore? So whereas
the Yas was signed
up for Sotheby's. Yeah.
coming out of this kind of trap, this capital trap
that was created in the companies.
Another way to look at it is like the Marietta way
where you have a visionary, an idea, go
to global market, take risks, try new things.
Now in that lost decade, it's more about consensus,
not taking risks, being as safe as possible,
not innovating, but also not losing your job because remember that social contract is now
broken.
So while Sony was perfecting Blu -ray players,
Netflix was coming out and bringing streaming
services.
While Japanese automakers were optimizing the engine,
Tesla was coming up with cars
that are essentially computers on wheels.
So the innovation came rolled to a stop.
I mean that innovation rolled to a stop in a global context.
So there is this term that was coined in the early
2000s called the Galapagos syndrome.
Does anybody know the Galapagos island?
What happens on the Galapagos island?
Yes?
Speaker 4 There's a bunch of unique species because it's
like a contained.
Exactly, yeah.
And those unique species are like specifically have grown to adapt to their environment and
thrive in it, but they can't thrive outside their environment.
That same thing happened in Japan with the technology.
So for example, the iPhone, I remember this, the iMode
in early 2000s, you could send email,
which you couldn't do on any other phone.
You could read QR codes, you could do cashless
payments, you could even stream TV on your
phone.
I know today it's like, well, yeah, of course.
But this is like five years before iPhone even came out.
They had this technology, but the technology only worked with systems in Japan.
And again, going back to the idea of not taking
risks, it was too risky to try to get this
technology global.
And soon iPhone would come and take over.
In addition, Sharp, who was great at building cameras
and phones and TV screens, they no
longer innovated.
They were soon bought out actually by Foxconn, which
was the parts supplier for a long time
of their TV sets.
Toshiba, they had a huge accounting scandal where they were inflating profits for like
seven years.
Somebody blew the whistle on that and they flopped as well.
So this is the reason why only one company now,
Toyota, is existing as a top 50 corporate
company.
And then in addition, Japanese, and I think this goes back now that we've talked about
the Edo time period and the Meiji Restoration,
there's this term called monozukuri, which
is really like a dedication to craftsmanship, which is great.
But at the same time, it takes a long time to
perfect something, so much for that they
don't want to put it out on the market because they still want to kind of perfect it or tinker
it until it's just perfect.
Whereas maybe out here, it's more agile, fail fast type product building.
And in addition, with the Galapagos effect, it
happened because Japan is actually a big
market, 125 million people.
So you could innovate in Japan and still live comfortably.
You can make those iMode phones.
So, you know, 100 million people.
Hundreds and thousands of them can be fine in country.
Whereas other countries like South Korea, which only has
51 million people, they were
kind of forced to go global.
And that's why, you know, you go to Costco or
whatever and you see all the TVs are Korean
TVs, Samsung, LG, because they had to perfect their
product and go global since their market
was so small.
Interesting point, something to think about as we progress in this course.
Where now with shrinking society, Japan's market is shrinking.
So how is that going to affect the corporate view of things?
Okay and that's it as far as an overview of the post
-war miracle and then the lost decades.
Again total defeat in World War II.
The nation was in ruins as its imperial system was dismantled.
And it transformed from a military.
Military.
Empire.
To an economic giant.
But then as we, you guys pointed out, the technology kind of stayed in country.
And then the bubble, the real estate bubble kind of
blew up the entire market or the entire
economy.
At some point, I think a few lectures down the road,
we will talk about the third pivot,
which happens during the Reiwa period, which is the current time period.
Any questions?
Yes.
I know that you said we're not really going to touch on Japan.
But I wanted to hear your perspective on why Japan
still kind of maybe denies like a strong
word but kind of avoids talking about like what
they, like the atrocities that they committed,
especially during like World War II against like how you showed on the map like South
Korea, Taiwan, China, or like Korea in general and all of that.
Yeah.
So.
I'll fast forward to this again.
I love podcasts.
So this guy, Dan Carlin.
Does anybody listen to Dan Carlin?
He's actually a CEO alum.
He's a great like before, I didn't really dig history.
But this guy does a great job at reading history.
He has a whole section or group of podcasts on supernova in the east.
And he talks about the E .T.
And he talks about Japan during that time period in post, in World War II.
And I think the perspective, at least what
he comes to the conclusion of, and I kind
of agree with him, is Japan, you know, after the,
during the Meiji Restoration, they earned
a seat at the table of the league of the top Western countries.
They were the only Asian country.
But still, it felt like maybe from their perspective.
It was.
It was racism or they just believed Japan couldn't do it.
They still didn't have the power that the other countries did at the table.
And so then they came back and started doing their own empire building.
And they reasoned they were doing it as to grow like, like how there's a European Union.
They wanted to grow in the Asian Union, have like a
Asia global condensed power to where
they could really have a seat at that table.
So.
And so, you know, the atrocities like with South Korea and the comfort women and everything
that happened is not an excuse, I think.
But in their thinking, it was kind of a means to
getting to that table of growing and creating
a whole Asian union.
And that's why they began the empire building.
And that's, you know, there was the collateral atrocities that happened from it.
But you're right.
When we go to Tokyo, we get, there's still shrines
out there that talk about the war
dead from Japan.
Where they still honor them, but they committed great atrocities.
But they're still there.
And the prime minister, depending on who the prime minister is, still goes and pays their
respect to it.
So for that part, I don't have an answer on why they do that.
But from the perspective, they're trying to build
like an Asian global footprint to, to
put them on the map with the rest of the Western world.
That's, I can, I can't.
I can kind of see why they're going that way of empire building.
Any other questions?
All right.
So let's go back to this.
So I have some breakout questions, but I want to do this because we're going to go to Japan.
You guys, I know you probably know the people at your table, but let's mix it up a little.
So let's see.
I, if I had time, I would make like a personality
quiz for everyone and group them on those.
But let's just do something simple.
Raise your hand if, I'm going to ask three flavors
of ice cream, vanilla, strawberry,
and chocolate.
Okay.
Raise your hand if you like vanilla ice cream.
Okay.
Raise your hand if you like chocolate ice cream.
Raise your hand if you like strawberry ice cream.
Okay.
All right.
Cool.
All right.
Everybody stand up.
All of the vanilla ice creams go huddle over here.
All of the chocolate ice creams go huddle on this side.
And then the strawberries, you can kind of find a table in the middle.
And we're going to do these discussion questions together.
Strawberry.
Yeah.
That was the other one.
That's a good choice.
Okay.
So, I'm going to go with the strawberry.
And find a, you guys can stand if you want or find a table, whichever.
There's a lot of vanilla and chocolates.
Strawberry.
And maybe vanilla and chocolate, if you guys are,
you guys are vanilla, you can make two
groups if you want in your vanilla.
Okay.
Can somebody read the first question for me, for the class?
Yes, please.
The core of the, if a company prioritizes the
security of 125 million citizens and protect
stable employment over high risk global expansion, is that a failure of leadership or a rational
choice to prioritize social stability over volatile global change?
Okay.
So, what do you guys think about Japan's decision to
put in this lifetime employment, which
grew the economy to what it is?
It did.
And then, can somebody read number two as well?
Yeah.
While the US values the freedom to job hop for higher salaries, would you welcome the
stability of lifetime employment found in the Japanese system?
Okay.
So, both questions are kind of similar.
What do you guys think?
After college, if you join a company on the contract that they will have lifetime employment
for you, but you're not going to get paid overtime.
You got to give full loyalty.
You're not going to see your family that much.
But you're set for life.
You're set for life.
Would you do it?
All right.
Please discuss.
We'll give you like five minutes, five, 10 minutes.
Yeah.
Same.
I mean, my first job after college.
Because I could not basically what he explained
where like if people got the contract, then
they just become lazy and like not do anything because they know.
They get older and then the company starts to fall too.
Like if you don't have new people coming in with new ideas.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I feel like it seems like a good idea to Japan at first, but then, but they really
think that.
I feel like, in all honesty .ücht,
is hard, but I feel like. It's
hard so far. You would
be asked them to something in theäg I would
rather be like. the church
and like live overtime. Like.
Yeah, that was a little bold stuff that was a little set.
I think the entrance was nice.
The entrance was nice.
But from there, yeah, it was nice.
Innovation era and everything like that was a novelty for me.
I think also it's worse off the companies that you're talking about.
Yeah.
The whole class go to Japan.
Yeah.
That's so awesome.
I've been to Japan.
I've been two times now.
It's like my favorite place in the world.
Really?
Such good food.
Like overly respectful people.
I dropped my wallet on the street once and like this dude picked it up.
I thought he was crazy.
Stuff does not get stolen in Japan.
He like returned it back to me and he was like thanking me.
He was like, .
And I'm like, dude, I gave him my wallet.
People were just like, that's awesome.
Kind of like moved them out of the way.
Is that why you're here?
It's a really talker.
Oh no, I work for like IT support services, IT consulting firm.
I hate saying that though because consulting is not all that much, but we're trying to
implement AI in our business.
So like he works like 12 hour days.
I take some courses.
He works like a year out of college.
As some of your colleagues.
I'm speaking to a class and I'm like, oh, like, I'm .
Yeah.
I'm just trying to get some more information.
I'm just trying to get some more information.
I'm just trying to get some more information.
I'm just trying to get some more information.
I don't want to.
This is.
I don't think this ability.
A lot of YouTube videos where it's workflows that don't actually work.
I really feel like people would appreciate
What type of, like are you trying to build solutions?
My thought is
We're really trying to build it more so
You had your incentive to grow
They won't get rid of you
And you won't get rid of them
It's like you guys both have a window
I feel like
Small cities or small towns
In Colorado and schools and stuff
Really just trying to introduce them to AI
So then we can see what they need
It was extreme
Right now it's like
I don't think I've heard chat GPT membership
You know, probably start going there
Like analytics
I know
You were saying
Positions
20 years
You're going to have more benefits
But like
I'm kind of at a loss
If that sucks you've got to work here the rest of your life
Right
Another of Matthew's courses
Work
Work
Work
Basically
Work
So
Have you seen
I did the low code one last semester
Stow the streets
Yeah
Nice
Just exhaust it
Yeah
Exactly
You know what I'm talking about
Especially
I figured out
You know
Got to be
I've seen
Try to learn a little bit more
Yeah
That's cool
Good treatment
That's what you're doing
I feel like that's a good place to be right now
Yeah
Skill set
That's true
Yeah
I really like frowned upon.
You'd be coming back.
You're like excommunicated.
We'd have clubbing and everything.
It's not going to work.
Or people don't stop.
It's just like somebody in a room saying, like, I got to go.
All right, guys, let's come back.
How are you guys?
Okay.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
All right.
All right.
Seems vanilla has lots of conversation.
That's great.
I don't know if flavor of ice cream links to personality or not.
It's just a tool I can use to mix you guys up.
You can stay at the same place or go to your original seats.
It's up to you.
All right.
Any ice cream flavor had an interesting discussion on point one
that they'd like to share with the class?
No.
Really?
Oh, yes, please.
You were generally talking about how stability and, like, leadership kind of went hand in
hand, and that is one of the reasons why the company
is kind of being so risk averse in
their strategy and making that kind of leg up their
whole kind of protection mindset
that you layered.
Was the root cause of it?
Was it more of a leadership thing?
Or was it just the global market and what Japan has done?
I mean, I guess it's just like the global market and what Japan has done that job is
crucial to the hobby of the labels and, I guess, the department.
So, welcome.
Thank you.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Totally agree.
Anybody else want to share?
How about number two?
What do you guys think?
Anybody have thoughts on working for a company for life?
Yes.
You were mostly saying that, you know, you're trying to make sure that you're not
a jobless person.
You're trying to make sure that you're not a jobless
person.
I mean, I think that's a good point.
I think that's a good point.
I think that's a good point.
I think that's a good point.
Yeah.
So, working for a lifetime, working for life for a company because AI?
How does that?
Kind of just like working with AI.
Because, like, there's been a huge debate going on around, too, how people are saying
AI is taking over jobs and stuff like that.
So, technology advances more than us, you know, having a lifetime job working with
that technology.
I think it's possible to do that.
Ah, yeah, yeah.
That's interesting.
So, you're kind of an insurance policy.
You're secure.
Yeah.
At AI.
Yeah.
So, you're not going to take over your job.
Cool.
Yeah.
I like that point.
Never thought about that.
And, you know, in Japan, it's interesting.
They hire by class year.
Like there's one season, it's a hiring season.
It's almost like you finish university and then you're
going into the corporate world,
but it's still set up as, like, freshman, sophomore, et cetera, years.
So, in springtime, the school calendar in Japan
starts in April when all the students
and all the cherry blossoms come down because it's new.
It's spring.
It's a great time to start school.
But that's also the hiring season for the corporations.
So you'll see, like, giant classes of young Japanese
people all in their salaryman black
suits going to their job interviews and then
afterwards going to the drinking parties because
they're being recruited into the companies and starting their careers.
And that all happens during the spring.
One thing to look ahead.
So when we go out to Japan, when observing tech
in Tokyo, such as persistence of fiscal
fax machines, yes, they still use fax machines.
Dedicated IC cards.
So these are your train cards.
Or hyper niche vending machines.
Yes, vending machines.
You can buy anything you want.
How do these reveal a different standard of innovation?
So something to think about when we go out there.
Okay.
One question.
Yes.
On that first one, I was thinking, parallel is kind of the question you asked us about
the Meiji period.
Where, you know, having done that protectionist
approach where there could be very, very limited
trading, it's kind of the same thing.
They closed themselves off from understanding what was happening on the global stage, and
so they didn't keep up with innovation.
And it seems like, in a way, this was a parallel approach.
A similar thing happened.
Do you see parallels?
I guess in the way that they didn't, you know, they didn't have a lot of innovation, they
didn't want, like today, where they're ruling by consensus, right?
And then, yeah, I guess there are some parallels in that.
You know, a lot of people say Japan is the future as
far as it's in the 2000s today,
right?
That a lot of the technologies that they
created during the early 2000s, it's kind of just
stuck.
They haven't innovated past that.
So, yeah, they are behind in that sense.
But the barrier is there.
There isn't trade.
It's more internal, right?
Where there's not a consensus, or I mean, there's too much consensus.
There's not any visionary leaders that are trying to break the mold.
Yeah, I agree.
Okay.
So, references.
First one, MIDI.
This is, again, academic.
So there's talks about the Japanese miracle.
And how MIDI, the trade organization, orchestrated that.
Lost Japan.
I read this book, actually, in the early 2000s.
It talks about how kind of it goes into the lost decade of Japan, and how that's come
about.
One part about this book I always remember, and you'll probably see it.
One way to keep the economy going is through construction.
And they cemented so much of the countryside.
Rivers, creeks, everything.
Just as an infrastructure project to keep the money moving.
That's mentioned a lot in this book here by Alex Kerr.
And then, as I mentioned, Dan Carlin, CU alum.
He also does a great podcast on Genghis Khan as well.
Check it out.
And this, I think the supernova in the east, it's like six or seven parts.
But it really gives you perspective on what you brought up during World War II and why.
And how they rose.
All right.
Okay, guys.
I'm going to, I got about ten minutes left here before we move to our guest speaker.
So I wanted to do a quick deep dive on some tech
that I worked on in the past.
And that we can kind of look at as when you guys
finally get into teams and finally think
about automated solutions.
Maybe you can glean some ideas off of this.
So the first technology I'm going to share is built in ChatGPT.
They're called ChatGPTs.
And I'll give you an example of this first one.
They're super easy to build.
This is Charlie Munger Investment Assistant.
And how I built this is.
I don't know if you can see it well.
But I gave it a prompt.
Right?
You're an investment advisor who uses.
Do you guys know who Charlie Munger is?
Oh, he's, you know who Warren Buffett is?
Charlie Munger is Warren Buffett's partner.
His right hand man, so to speak.
So you're an investment advisor who uses Charlie
Munger's wisdom to recommend investment strategies.
You are wise and have long term outlook.
So it's a prompt to frame him as this ChatGPT as Charlie Munger.
And then some set questions, which you can see here that appear here.
And then I just went out and found articles on Charlie Munger.
You know, interviews, profiles on him.
Let me see if I can find one.
Yeah.
Yeah, something like this.
This is one of the PDFs.
I just throw it in, information on Munger and his thinking.
I put that in their knowledge base.
And then I also did a little widget.
This is actually written in JavaScript.
But I used an AI agent to make the JavaScript as well.
That pulls tickers, stock tickers for me.
So then you could do something like, what are
your top five investment strategies?
He's searching knowledge base.
And then he, you know, talks about some knowledge
strategies or some money strategies.
Or I could do something like, let me see if I can get back to the question.
Okay.
Can you get me a price of a stock?
Yes, I can.
What do you want?
Let's do Apple.
What's today's Apple stock?
Then it's going into that API, which was written in JavaScript that I showed you.
It goes and looks that up.
And it pulls up the price.
That's today's price.
Okay.
Pretty neat.
This was built a year ago.
And at the time, it was super cheap.
Super cool.
But now I look at this and I say, well, I could
just talk to ChatGPT and say, pretend you're Charlie Munger.
Give me stock advice, right?
And I don't even have to program it to look up a
stock price because it's already integrated now in ChatGPT.
But at the time, it wasn't.
And so I had to manually build it out.
Another one is, let's do Makoto -kun.
This is Makoto -kun.
This is the first generation.
Muskaan is here.
She would know it.
But I did the same thing.
I gave it a knowledge base and lecture notes, meeting
notes, summary notes, everything about as the schedule for the program.
And then I kind of prompted instructions, you
know, AI -assisted, designed to provide information about the Nuku program.
But I kept having to add to the prompt.
Like, oh, I've uploaded a tentative calendar.
Oh, I've uploaded a summary of our most recent virtual session.
So this prompt started to get long.
But it still works.
You know, Makoto -kun is still here.
I can say, please provide a summary of last virtual session.
And there it goes.
It talks about the design sprint that we did last year.
It's really cool.
In addition, I can ask it.
Let me show you here.
I have Makoto -kun.
One of its knowledge base is the schedule, the itinerary when we're in Japan.
This is the actual itinerary we had last year.
And so I could say something like, oh, I don't know.
What did we do on 520?
So I could go back to Makoto -kun.
You know.
And you can use.
Let me go back here.
What did we do on 520, 525?
It looks at its knowledge base.
And then, yeah, we took talks about the schedule.
Yeah, we went to Station AI that day.
Is that right?
520?
Yeah, Station AI.
OK.
So it's another way to interface with the calendar, keep you updated.
If you don't want to look at this and try to thumb
through it, you could just talk to Makoto -kun and ask him what we're doing tomorrow.
OK.
And this was a web interface.
So they would just go right here and talk to it directly.
But there were some limitations, mainly with the
knowledge base where I kept having to add stuff.
And it started to get bloated.
It started to get slow.
So, oh, by the way, if you're interested, ChatGPT has a store.
Other people put their GPTs out there that you can use.
I don't think it's as popular today as it was when it first came out.
I thought it was a really cool idea.
I wish OpenAI would push this a little further, kind
of like the Apple App Store where you can make
your own agent and sell it on this OpenAI store.
But they haven't pushed it forward as much as I had hoped.
But, again, going back to Makoto -kun, the knowledge base started to get bloated.
And it started to get slow.
And there were things about this, especially how to stay in the OpenAI ecosystem.
So now, and I'll share with you next time, I'm
starting to build Makoto -kun 2 .0 inside NAN.
So I can now talk to it and say, you know, like, hi.
And it will go to the agent.
And you can select whatever language model you want.
I'm just using my OpenAI account.
I don't know if you can see that well.
But it says, you know, he introduces himself, talks about the program.
So I can say something like, why should I join Nuku?
By the way, Nuku is another name for this
program, right, Nagoya University, University of Colorado.
But he's thinking.
He's going into his knowledge base right here.
And then he provides, which basically was a brochure that I fed into it.
And it gives the reasons that is found on one of the brochures.
It can also do email.
It can email the team if it doesn't know the answer to the question.
Or it can schedule coffee chats with the team if you guys want.
But, again, there's a problem with this.
Because the document.
. .
Where is it?
That I fed it.
Is. . .
It's just a text document.
I took the content from the brochure, top five reasons to join Nuku.
And I put it here.
It's fine.
You know, the model will read this document and kind
of regurgitate the answers to you off of it.
But every time I ask it a question, it reads through the whole document.
Which, again, is going to slow it down.
Because I want to add, like, the transcripts from this lecture to it.
I want to add, you know, the calendar.
I want to add a lot more things into it.
And every time I ask it a question, it's going to
read that whole document before it gives me an answer.
Which is just going to get slower and slower and slower.
So the next version, which I'll share with you guys down the road once I get it.
Is Makoto -kun, I think, 2 .3.
Which is what's known as a RAG architecture.
Where it'll go in and only pull back the chunks relevant.
And read those chunks.
And then give you the answer.
So that's what I'm working on now.
And I hope to share it with you next time.
So, any questions about this?
All right.
Cool.
Thank you, guys.
Oh, wait.
Sorry.
I forgot one last thing.
The most important thing.
From a social aspect.
Weela AI.
So, Weela is my mom.
And I don't know what you guys think about this.
It's kind of, you know, it's kind of in a weird spot.
But one day for, like, several years ago, for
Mother's Day, I brought, I bought my mom this account called StoryWorth.
And what it does.
It emailed her questions every week.
Just about her life.
Like, who did you date in high school?
You know.
What are some of your family traditions?
You know, it's an eight -page document.
Over time, then I accumulated all these answers.
Because she would write.
And she would email back to this account.
And then it would share the answers with me.
So, I took all that content.
And I fed it into Weela AI.
And in a way, it was a great experience.
And in a way, it's weird.
But it's like talking to my mom.
So, I have this prompt.
It says, you are a relic of my mother.
My mother is still alive.
I don't know why I said that.
But I've uploaded the files.
Several questions.
Yeah.
And so, I prompt.
I give it a prompt.
Also, my mother speaks Spanish.
So, I tell her to say things like, hee -haw.
And so, yeah.
I could say something like, hi, Weela.
Oh, it starts in Spanish.
Please speak in English.
Yeah.
See?
And it's saying, I'm happy to see you.
Right?
And I can say, like, tell me what it was like growing up.
So, when we talk about problems of a shrinking
society, we'll know, you know, loneliness is one of the social issues of it.
Right?
So, I'm happy to say that.
This could be a technology to help that.
Although it's kind of that strange, like, is it really my mom?
What is it doing?
But, yeah.
It talks about her life.
And this is really her knowledge being preserved
and sent back to me.
So, that's one other thing I wanted to share.
Okay.
Thanks, guys.
That's awesome.
All right.
